IDE integration instructions (#190)
jetpack-io/devbox: docs/app/docs/ide_integration/eclipse.md

---

> title: Eclipse integration

Reviewer: Maybe describe this as Configuration instead of Integration

---

## Java
Eclipse IDE is mostly used for development of Java projects. Therefore, in this guide we cover setting up a Java environment that's created inside devbox shell to work with Eclipse IDE.

> ### Setting up Devbox shell

Reviewer: Out of curiosity, does this get automatically configured if you start Eclipse from within your Devbox Shell?

Author: Yes, I tested it and it does. I'll add that to the doc as well as an alternative.

> To create a devbox shell make sure to have devbox installed. If you don't have devbox installed follow the installation guide first. Then follow the steps below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a devbox shell make sure to have devbox installed. If you don't have devbox installed follow the installation guide first. Then run the following commands from the root of your project's repo:
```

1. `devbox init` if you don't have a devbox.json in the root directory of your project.
2. `devbox add jdk` to make sure jdk gets installed in your devbox shell.
3. `devbox shell` to activate and go into your devbox shell.
4. `echo $JAVA_HOME` and copy the path to your java home inside the devbox shell. It should be something like this:
    ```bash
    /nix/store/qaf9fysymdoj19qtyg7209s83lajz65b-zulu17.34.19-ca-jdk-17.0.3

>     ```

Reviewer 2: We can now combine these into:

```shell
$ devbox shell -- 'echo $JAVA_HOME'
Installing nix packages. This may take a while...
Starting a devbox shell...
/nix/store/qaf9wyzymdij19qxyw7208s72lajz65b-zulu17.34.19-ca-jdk-17.0.3
```

5. Open Eclipse IDE and create a new Java project if you don't have already
6. From the top menu go to Run > Run Configurations > JRE and choose **Alternate JRE:**
7. Click on **Installed JREs...**  and click **Add...** in the window of Installed JREs.
8. Choose **Standard VM** as JRE Type and click Next.
9. Paste the value you copied in step 4 in **JRE HOME** and put an arbitrary name such as "devbox-jre" in **JRE Name** and click Finish.
10. Click **Apply and Close** in Installed JREs window. Then close Run Configurations.

Now your project in Eclipse is setup to compile and run with the same Java that is installed in your devbox shell. Next step is to run your Java code inside Devbox.

### Setting up Eclipse Terminal

> To make sure the compiling and running your Java project happens inside devbox. We have to use a terminal. The following steps show how to run a Java application in Eclipse terminal but the steps are not exclusive to Eclipse and can be used by any unix terminal.

Reviewer 2: The previous section makes it sound like the built-in Eclipse compile/run commands will use the JDK in the devbox environment, but the first couple of sentences here make me think you need to use the terminal.

Is this edit accurate?

```suggestion
The following steps show how to run a Java application in a devbox shell using the Eclipse terminal. Note that most of these steps are not exclusive to Eclipse and can also be used in any Linux or macOS terminal.
```
